# 2184D

This is an interesting problem. I should check the tutorial for this one, since its approach is different from my solution.

So here is my solution.

First, the optimal way to reduce any number $x$ is to follow this sequence of steps: if $x$ is even, divide it by $2$; if $x$ is odd, subtract $1$.

Why is this optimal? In general, you cannot perform consecutive divisions by $2$. However, in every two moves we can perform exactly one division by $2$. If we repeatedly subtract $1$, we simply waste moves.

Now onto the DP solution.

Let

$$
\text{dp}[n][m]
$$

be the number of integers that finish in $n$ optimal moves and are less than $2^m$.

Let

$$
\text{dp}_{\text{odd}}[n][m]
$$

be the number of __odd__ integers that finish in $n$ optimal moves and are less than $2^m$.

Let

$$
\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n][m]
$$

be the number of __even__ integers that finish in $n$ optimal moves and are less than $2^m$.

Now observe that if an odd number finishes in $n$ moves, then it must come from exactly one even number that is smaller by $1$ and requires $n-1$ moves. Thus

$$
\text{dp}_{\text{odd}}[n][m] = \text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n-1][m] - I(n,m)
$$

But what is $I(n,m)$?

The bound $2^m$ introduces a small complication. If $2^m$ appears in $\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n-1][m]$, then the corresponding odd number would be $2^m + 1$, but we only want odd numbers **less than $2^m$**. Therefore, we must subtract this case.

Hence, $I(n,m) = 1$ only when $2^m$ belongs to $\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n-1][m]$, i.e., when `n-1 == m+1`.

Now any number in $\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n][m]$ can come from either $\text{dp}_{\text{odd}}[n-1][m-1]$ or $\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n-1][m-1]$, and nowhere else. Thus

$$
\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n][m] =
\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n-1][m-1] +
\text{dp}_{\text{odd}}[n-1][m-1]
$$

Therefore our final set of equations is

$$
\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n][m] =
\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n-1][m-1] +
\text{dp}_{\text{odd}}[n-1][m-1]
=
\text{dp}[n-1][m-1]
$$

$$
\text{dp}_{\text{odd}}[n][m] =
\text{dp}_{\text{even}}[n-1][m] - I(n,m)
=
\text{dp}[n-2][m-1] - I(n,m)
$$

Adding them together, we obtain

$$
\text{dp}[n][m] =
\text{dp}[n-1][m-1] +
\text{dp}[n-2][m-1] -
I(n,m)
$$

|*Note : My original `.md` file had some gramatical errors, thus I used AI to rectify and modify it.